# for

The `for` loop iterates over a sequence, such as a list of filenames or variables, 
or even a group of values generated by running a command. Inside the `for` 
loop, we define a block of commands that are run against each value in the 
list, and each value in the list is assigned to a variable name we define.

Listing 2-18 shows the syntax of a `for` loop.

```bash
for variable_name in LIST; do
 # Run some commands for each item in the sequence.
done
```
*Listing 2-18: A for loop*

A simple way to use a `for` loop is to execute the same command multiple 
times. For example, Listing 2-19 prints the numbers 1 through 10.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
for index in $(seq 1 10); do
 echo "${index}"
done
```
*Listing 2-19: Counting to 10 in a for loop*

Save and run this script. You should see the following output:

```
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
```

A more practical example might use a `for` loop to run commands 
against a bunch of IP addresses passed on the command line. Listing 2-20 
retrieves all arguments passed to the script, then iterates through them and 
prints a message for each.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
for ip_address in "$@"; do
 echo "Taking some action on IP address ${ip_address}"
done
```
*Listing 2-20: Iterating through command line arguments*

Save this script as `for_loop_arguments.sh` and run it as follows:

```
$ chmod u+x for_loop_arguments.sh
$ ./for_loop_arguments.sh 10.0.0.1 10.0.0.2 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.2
Taking some action on IP address 10.0.0.1
Taking some action on IP address 10.0.0.2
--snip-
```

We can even run a `for` loop on the output of commands such as `ls`. In 
Listing 2-21, we print the names of all files in the current working directory.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
for file in $(ls .); do
 echo "File: ${file}"
done
```
*Listing 2-21: Iterating through files in the current directory*

We use a `for` loop to iterate over the output of the `ls .` command, which 
lists the files in the current directory. Each file will be assigned to the `file` 
variable as part of the `for` loop, so we can then use `echo` to print its name. 
This technique would be useful, for example, if we wanted to perform an 
upload of all files in the directory or even rename them in bulk.